Business logic articles series: definition (#86)
Knotx/knotx-website: src/render/blog/business-logic-definition.html.md

---
title: What does business logic mean for us

> description: We will find an answer what does the business logic mean for us. We would transform user stories to domain objects and then model the solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: In this post, we will tell you what does business logic means for us and transform user stories to domain objects and then model the solution. It starts the series discussing "Business Logic Evolution".
```
wdyt?

author: tomaszmichalak

> keywords: business,requirements,user-stories,business-logic,domain-object,domain-space,solution-space

Reviewer: It doesn't work like the tags unfortunately. And this would be to much, I'd suggest:
```suggestion
keywords: business-logic,domain-driven-design,user-stories
```
According to SEO rules, the good practice says to put up to 3-5 tags.

order: 1

> date: 2020-06-04

Reviewer: Remember to update that.

---
title: What does business logic mean for us
description: We will find an answer what does the business logic mean for us. We would transform user stories to domain objects and then model the solution.
author: tomaszmichalak
keywords: business,requirements,user-stories,business-logic,domain-object,domain-space,solution-space
order: 1
date: 2020-06-04
---

> This is the first article in the series dedicated to the subject of business logic.

Reviewer: Let's remove that, we will add this info when more articles in the series will come.

- the first step gets details about the user
- the second step uses user details and gets products

![Business logic decomposition](/img/blog/business-logic-definition/business-logic-decomposition.png)

It is easy to see that the result of the previous step becomes the input of the next.

## Decisions
Let's make our example user story more specific:

> Standard user gets standard products.
> Premium user gets premium products.

Adjectives define domain object properties, the attributes. Now our functions look like:

```shell script
Product<Standard> (User<Standard>)
Product<Premium> (User<Premium>)
```

Attributes define business decisions. Those decisions define a context for the next steps. So each
subsequent step is in the context of previous decisions.

So our “steps” diagram looks like:

![alt_text](/img/blog/business-logic-definition/business-logic-variants.png)

The “get user” steps for both scenarios accept the same input (`Context`) and define two different
outputs (`User<Standard>` and `User<Premium>`). Those outputs are business decisions. Steps with the
same input can be easily merged.

![alt_text](/img/blog/business-logic-definition/business-logic-decisions.png)

> As you can see, steps can have a single input and multiple outputs. Input specifies previous business

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, steps can have a single input and multiple outputs. The input specifies previous business
```

> decisions, and outputs new.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
decisions and outputs new.
```

## Big picture
The presented user stories were trivial. Very often, they are the result of breaking down more complex
domain problems into small manageable items. So one story defines input for another, etc. Combining
them together we get a graph of steps.

![alt_text](/img/blog/business-logic-definition/business-logic-big-picture.png)

> So business decisions produce branches to new steps/logics. Finally, we get an acyclic directed graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can say business decisions produce paths to new steps/logics. Finally, we get an acyclic directed graph
```
Too many `so` ;)
